

Case No.: 3767 / 1923
Notarial Deed

Before me, Dr. Béla Ödön Hajós, Royal Public Notary in Budapest,

appeared Alfréd Guttmann, building contractor, and his wife, born Jenny Stein, residents of Budapest 
(District V, József tér No. 4), known to me personally; further, the legal witnesses known to me personally 
and appearing before me, Vilmos Haasz, private employee (District IX, Bokréta utca No. 20), and Mór Steiner, 
private employee (District IX, Ráday utca No. 17), residents of Budapest, who were continuously present and 
uninterruptedly staying together with me throughout the whole transaction, and declared the following transaction 
before me, taking down the same into this notarial deed:

Joint and Mutual Will.

—We, Alfréd Guttmann and Guttmann born Jenny Stein, residing in Budapest, hereby dispose of our whole estate left 
behind upon our death, of whatever kind or expected, out of our healthy mind and completely free will, as follows:

I, Alfréd Guttmann, in the event of my predeceasing my wife, born Jenny Stein, hereby appoint and designate as 
my general and exclusive heirs in equal shares among themselves the children born of our marriage existing with 
my named wife, namely Imre, Pál, and László Guttmann, while reserving the entire usufruct and right of enjoyment 
of my whole estate left behind for my named wife, born Jenny Stein.

I, Mrs. Alfréd Guttmann, born Jenny Stein, in the event of my predeceasing my husband, Alfréd Guttmann, hereby appoint 
and designate as my general and exclusive heirs in equal shares among themselves the children born of our marriage existing 
with my named husband—children born, namely Imre, Pál, and László Guttmann, while bequeathing the right of free lifetime 
usufruct and enjoyment of my entire estate left behind to my named husband, Alfréd Guttmann.

In the event that our children designated as our heirs in this present will, or any one of them, should not be satisfied 
with this our will and should contest it for any reason, we hereby reduce the share of such child or children to the legal 
statutory minimum (kötelesrész), and assign the remaining surplus portion of the estate to our child or children who remain satisfied with our will.

If, however, none of our children should be satisfied with this our will, in that case we, Alfréd Guttmann and Mrs. Alfréd Guttmann, 
born Jenny Stein, hereby appoint and designate each other as our mutual general and exclusive heirs, with the provision that the 
late—deceased spouse predeceasing them, our children shall inherit in equal shares and per stirpes (fejenként és törzsenként).

Which present notarial deed containing testamentary dispositions, after I, the notary, satisfied myself of the parties' capacity to dispose, 
I read aloud in the presence of the above-named legal witnesses who were continuously present together with me throughout the entire transaction, 
explained it to them, and after they declared it to be in all respects in accordance with their will, the appearing parties and legal witnesses 
present signed it together with me, the notary, below the text in their own hands, and placed their mark on the place of the seal, 
acknowledging it as their genuine will.

I certify that this deed was drawn up in accordance with the provisions contained in § 83 of Act XXXV of 1874, adhering to all the requirements above.

Done in Budapest, in the year nineteen hundred and twenty-three [1923], on the fifteenth day of the month of June.

Signatures:

    Guttmann Alfréd

    Guttmann Alfrédné born Jenny Stein

    Mór Steiner (legal witness)

    Haasz Vilmos (legal witness)

    Dr. Hajós Béla Ödön (royal public notary)

[Marginal Inscription on the Left]

    Official Probate Notation:

    "Published at the Pest Central Royal District Court under V.T. 4686/925."

    Budapest, December 12, 1925.