


Eulogy for Peter Guttman given by his step-brother's son Yair Lapid


--
After the Great War, everyone returned home. Father too. [He means his father Tommy Lapid] They weren't sure there was a home, 
but they left the ghetto and drove and walked and jumped on freight trains, and marched on muddy, blood-soaked roads. They 
arrived in Novi Sad, Father's hometown, and discovered that Russian soldiers had taken over the house. They waited for 
Grandfather to return from the camps, but he didn't. Grandma, who was still young and beautiful, did what everyone 
else did: she remarried. She married Rudi Guttman, a partisan who had returned from the forests. She lost her husband 
and had a son, Tommy, he lost his wife and had a son, Peter. At the age of 16, my father suddenly had a brother.

They immigrated to Israel together, to a too-small apartment in Tel Aviv, and Grandma and Rudy decided to send 
Peter to a kibbutz. He was only nine years old, a child who had already been through the Holocaust, and left a 
communist country, and arrived in a new language and a new country, and then they took him out of the house 
and sent him to a kibbutz and only came to visit once every two or three months. I don't know what it did to 
him, but in those days it happened a lot.
 
Everything was hard and people treated children differently. Peter grew up on a kibbutz, and all his life 
he remembered how my father once came to visit him with a command car [Jeep]. My father was an electrician in an 
army car workshop in Afula, and one Saturday he took a command car and went to visit Peter and all the other 
children saw that Peter had an older brother with an even bigger military vehicle. Years later, Peter wanted to 
leave the kibbutz, and my father told him, "Don't leave, it's hard in the city," but Peter was already a big boy, 
and he left, and married Ella, and started a wonderful family with three successful children who loved him.

We were not in constant contact, but Dad loved him and passed that love on to us, and he lived not far from me, 
in the same neighborhood. I would see him going shopping, or sitting on the "blue" beach with Ella, and I was 
always happy for him and he was always happy for me, and more than once I told him that Dad knew he was wrong 
when he told him to stay on the kibbutz.

Yesterday Peter passed away. He may not have changed the world, and he wasn't as famous as his step-brother, but 
he was a good man who was loved dearly by his children and wife, and everyone who knew him liked him, and 
countries are built on people like him, who simply live and work and raise their children with dedication and 
don't expect others to solve their problems. Because if at the age of nine you already survived the Holocaust 
and you were sent to grow up alone on a kibbutz, then everything else will probably be small for you.

May your memory be blessed, Peter, our family was blessed with you.

